# sql-data-analysis-project
Welcome to my Data Analytics Project! This is a continuation of my Data Warehousing Project that I made while following my online SQL course created by [Data With Baraa](https://github.com/DataWithBaraa). Using the data tables and views from the previous project, I performed numerous analyses such as database exploration, date range exploration, measure exploration, magnitude analysis, ranking analysis, change over time analysis, cumulative analysis, performance analysis, part-to-whole analysis, and data segmentation. <br>

## Task descriptions For Each Section

1. **Database Exploration**: Explored all the columns in the database and learned how the data is structured and categorized. <br>
2. **Date Range Exploration**: Found the oldest/newest orders placed and the oldest/youngest customers.  <br>
3. **Measure Exploration**: Generated a report that shows key metrics such as total sales, total quantity sold, average sold product price, total orders placed, total unique products bought vs total unique products available, and total unique customers. <br>
4. **Magnitude Analysis**: Find total customers by country, total customers by gender, total products in each category, average cost in each category, total revenue generated by each category, total revenue generated by each customer, and distribution of total items sold across each country. <br>
5. **Ranking Analysis**: Find the top 5 and bottom 5 products in terms of total revenue generated and find the top 10 and bottom 3 customers in terms of total revenue generated. <br>
6. **Change-Over-Time Analysis**: Aggregated each year's total sales or each month's total sales and calculated month-over-month sales. <br>
7. **Cumulative Analysis**: Calculated and displayed month-over-month sales alongside a running total. Calculated the average sold product price month-over-month alongside a moving average. <br>
8. **Performance Analysis**: Analyzed yearly sales performance of products by comparing their sales to their average yearly sales and also their previous years sales. <br>
9. **Part-To-Whole Analysis**: Calculatde the contribution of each categories' sales to the total sales. <br>
10. **Data Segmentation**:   Segmented products into cost ranges and count how many products fall into each group. Grouped customers into three segments based on their spending total and spending history <br>



## Whats Next?
I have truly enjoyed working with ERP and CRM data that simulates work done as a product data analyst/engineer. I intend on adding a separate section to this project where I'll perform more complex queries to strengthen my ability to maintain data integrity, accuracy, and create insightful reports at a high level. 
